ravenwood/api-maintainers.md, before:

# Ravenwood for API Maintainers

By default, Android APIs aren’t opted-in to Ravenwood, and they default to throwing when called under the Ravenwood environment.

To opt-in to supporting an API under Ravenwood, you can use the inline annotations documented below to customize your API behavior when running under Ravenwood.  Because these annotations are inline in the relevant platform source code, they serve as valuable reminders to future API maintainers of Ravenwood support expectations.

> **Note:** to ensure that API teams are well-supported during early Ravenwood onboarding, the Ravenwood team is manually maintaining an allow-list of classes that are able to use Ravenwood annotations.  Please reach out to ravenwood@ so we can offer design advice and allow-list your APIs.

These Ravenwood-specific annotations have no bearing on the status of an API being public, `@SystemApi`, `@TestApi`, `@hide`, etc.  Ravenwood annotations are an orthogonal concept that are only consumed by the internal `hoststubgen` tool during a post-processing step that generates the Ravenwood runtime environment.  Teams that own APIs can continue to refactor opted-in `@hide` implementation details, as long as the test-visible behavior continues passing.

As described in our Guiding Principles, when a team opts-in an API, we’re requiring that they bring along “bivalent” tests (such as the relevant CTS) to validate that Ravenwood behaves just like a physical device.  At the moment this means adding the bivalent tests to relevant `TEST_MAPPING` files to ensure they remain consistently passing over time.  These bivalent tests are important because they progressively provide the foundation on which higher-level unit tests place their trust.

## Opt-in to supporting a single method while other methods remained opt-out

```
@RavenwoodKeepPartialClass
public class MyManager {
    @RavenwoodKeep
    public static String modeToString(int mode) {
        // This method implementation runs as-is on both devices and Ravenwood
    }

    public static void doComplex() {
        // This method implementation runs as-is on devices, but because there
        // is no method-level annotation, and the class-level default is
        // “keep partial”, this method is not supported under Ravenwood and
        // will throw
    }
}
```

## Opt-in an entire class with opt-out of specific methods

```
@RavenwoodKeepWholeClass
public class MyStruct {
    public void doSimple() {
        // This method implementation runs as-is on both devices and Ravenwood,
        // implicitly inheriting the class-level annotation
    }

    @RavenwoodThrow
    public void doComplex() {
        // This method implementation runs as-is on devices, but the
        // method-level annotation overrides the class-level annotation, so
        // this method is not supported under Ravenwood and will throw
    }
}
```

## Replace a complex method when under Ravenwood

```
@RavenwoodKeepWholeClass
public class MyStruct {
    @RavenwoodReplace
    public void doComplex() {
        // This method implementation runs as-is on devices, but the
        // implementation is replaced/substituted by the
        // doComplex$ravenwood() method implementation under Ravenwood
    }

    public void doComplex$ravenwood() {
        // This method implementation only runs under Ravenwood
    }
}
```

## General strategies for side-stepping tricky dependencies

The “replace” strategy described above is quite powerful, and can be used in creative ways to sidestep tricky underlying dependencies that aren’t ready yet.

For example, consider a constructor or static initializer that relies on unsupported functionality from another team.  By factoring the unsupported logic into a dedicated method, that method can then be replaced under Ravenwood to offer baseline functionality.

## Strategies for JNI

At the moment, JNI isn't yet supported under Ravenwood, but you may still want to support APIs that are partially implemented with JNI.  The current approach is to use the “replace” strategy to offer a pure-Java alternative implementation for any JNI-provided logic.

Since this approach requires potentially complex re-implementation, it should only be considered for core infrastructure that is critical to unblocking widespread testing use-cases.  Other less-common usages of JNI should instead wait for offical JNI support in the Ravenwood environment.

When a pure-Java implementation grows too large or complex to host within the original class, the `@RavenwoodNativeSubstitutionClass` annotation can be used to host it in a separate source file:

```
@RavenwoodKeepWholeClass
@RavenwoodNativeSubstitutionClass("com.android.platform.test.ravenwood.nativesubstitution.MyComplexClass_host")
public class MyComplexClass {
    private static native void nativeDoThing(long nativePtr);
...

public class MyComplexClass_host {
    public static void nativeDoThing(long nativePtr) {
        // ...
    }
```

Commit message:

Update [more] Ravenwood docs to reflect pause in development.
Change-Id: Iee3d67a9e5269453f91bee6f3665a2460ba11517

ravenwood/api-maintainers.md, after:

# Ravenwood for API Maintainers

By default, Android APIs aren’t opted-in to Ravenwood, and they default to throwing when called under the Ravenwood environment.

To opt-in to supporting an API under Ravenwood, you can use the inline annotations documented below to customize your API behavior when running under Ravenwood.  Because these annotations are inline in the relevant platform source code, they serve as valuable reminders to future API maintainers of Ravenwood support expectations.

> **Note:** Active development of Ravenwood has been paused as of March 2024. Currently supported APIs will continue working, but the addition of new APIs is not currently being supported. There is an allowlist that restricts where Ravenwood-specific annotations can be used, and that allowlist is not being expanded while development is paused.

These Ravenwood-specific annotations have no bearing on the status of an API being public, `@SystemApi`, `@TestApi`, `@hide`, etc.  Ravenwood annotations are an orthogonal concept that are only consumed by the internal `hoststubgen` tool during a post-processing step that generates the Ravenwood runtime environment.  Teams that own APIs can continue to refactor opted-in `@hide` implementation details, as long as the test-visible behavior continues passing.

As described in our Guiding Principles, when a team opts-in an API, we’re requiring that they bring along “bivalent” tests (such as the relevant CTS) to validate that Ravenwood behaves just like a physical device.  At the moment this means adding the bivalent tests to relevant `TEST_MAPPING` files to ensure they remain consistently passing over time.  These bivalent tests are important because they progressively provide the foundation on which higher-level unit tests place their trust.

## Opt-in to supporting a single method while other methods remained opt-out

```
@RavenwoodKeepPartialClass
public class MyManager {
    @RavenwoodKeep
    public static String modeToString(int mode) {
        // This method implementation runs as-is on both devices and Ravenwood
    }

    public static void doComplex() {
        // This method implementation runs as-is on devices, but because there
        // is no method-level annotation, and the class-level default is
        // “keep partial”, this method is not supported under Ravenwood and
        // will throw
    }
}
```

## Opt-in an entire class with opt-out of specific methods

```
@RavenwoodKeepWholeClass
public class MyStruct {
    public void doSimple() {
        // This method implementation runs as-is on both devices and Ravenwood,
        // implicitly inheriting the class-level annotation
    }

    @RavenwoodThrow
    public void doComplex() {
        // This method implementation runs as-is on devices, but the
        // method-level annotation overrides the class-level annotation, so
        // this method is not supported under Ravenwood and will throw
    }
}
```

## Replace a complex method when under Ravenwood

```
@RavenwoodKeepWholeClass
public class MyStruct {
    @RavenwoodReplace
    public void doComplex() {
        // This method implementation runs as-is on devices, but the
        // implementation is replaced/substituted by the
        // doComplex$ravenwood() method implementation under Ravenwood
    }

    public void doComplex$ravenwood() {
        // This method implementation only runs under Ravenwood
    }
}
```

## General strategies for side-stepping tricky dependencies

The “replace” strategy described above is quite powerful, and can be used in creative ways to sidestep tricky underlying dependencies that aren’t ready yet.

For example, consider a constructor or static initializer that relies on unsupported functionality from another team.  By factoring the unsupported logic into a dedicated method, that method can then be replaced under Ravenwood to offer baseline functionality.

## Strategies for JNI

At the moment, JNI isn't yet supported under Ravenwood, but you may still want to support APIs that are partially implemented with JNI.  The current approach is to use the “replace” strategy to offer a pure-Java alternative implementation for any JNI-provided logic.

Since this approach requires potentially complex re-implementation, it should only be considered for core infrastructure that is critical to unblocking widespread testing use-cases.  Other less-common usages of JNI should instead wait for offical JNI support in the Ravenwood environment.

When a pure-Java implementation grows too large or complex to host within the original class, the `@RavenwoodNativeSubstitutionClass` annotation can be used to host it in a separate source file:

```
@RavenwoodKeepWholeClass
@RavenwoodNativeSubstitutionClass("com.android.platform.test.ravenwood.nativesubstitution.MyComplexClass_host")
public class MyComplexClass {
    private static native void nativeDoThing(long nativePtr);
...

public class MyComplexClass_host {
    public static void nativeDoThing(long nativePtr) {
        // ...
    }
```
